Post genesis claim (#431)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/claims.md

---
id: claims
title: Polkadot Claims
sidebar_label: Claims
---

When Polkadot enters into its soft launch, the functionality for making on-chain claims for DOTs
will already be enabled. If you've already made a pre-genesis claim by making a claim transaction on
the Ethereum Claim Contract, then you will not need to claim again but you will need to send a free
_attest_ transaction before your DOTs are sent to your account.

This guide will walk you through the steps for either making a claim or attesting to the statement.

If you are making a claim on Polkadot for the first time please read on below in the
[making a claim](#making-a-claim) section. If you've already claimed during the pre-genesis claims

> please proceed to [attesting to a statem](#attesting-to-a-statement) section instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
please proceed to [attesting to a statement](#attesting-to-a-statement) section instead.
```

## Making a Claim

If you did not make a claim in the pre-genesis claims period then you are able to make a claim any
time after genesis. There is no time limit for making your claim so feel free to do this whenever
you are most comfortable.

> Note: When you make a claim, at the same time you will make an attestation to the required
> statement. The two actions "claim" and "attest" are done at once in a `claim_attest` transaction,
> but for the most part this is simplified from the perspective of the UI.

> ### What you will need

Reviewer: caps

> ### What you will need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What You Will Need
```

> - The Ethereum account that holds the DOT indicator tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Ethereum account that holds the DOT indicator tokens
```

> - The MyCrypto wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The MyCrypto wallet
```

> - A Polkadot account.

Reviewer: no periods

> - A Polkadot account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Polkadot account
```

You should already have your Ethereum account that holds the DOT indicator tokens from Polkadot's
prior sales. You will need to have access to this account in order to make a signature.

> [MyCrypto][] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum

Reviewer: this link doesn't go anywhere

Reviewer 3: Yes it does

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25539605/82824320-69358c00-9ea9-11ea-8b78-00bdbe55c52c.png)

Reviewer: Well, with the `s` yes, but I think we should point people to their actual website: https://download.mycrypto.com/

Reviewer 3: Good point, changed to this one.

> [MyCrypto][] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[MyCrypto][https://download.mycrypto.com/] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum
```

Reviewer 3: The links are working already using the footnote linking style.

Reviewer: Yeah but the link associated with MyCrypto was 404

Reviewer: This: `[mycrypto]: https://github.com/MyCryptoHQ/MyCrypto/release`

Reviewer 3: Oh, that's what you meant. It should be fixed now.

> The [MyCrypto][] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum

Reviewer 2: I think this should just be "MyCrypto" (not "The MyCrypto")

```suggestion
[MyCrypto][] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum
```

account. Please click on the link to go to their downloads page and ensure you download the latest
version for your operating system. This is important because the latest version will always have the
latest security patches.

> You will need a Polkadot account to mark as the destination for sending the dots in the claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need a Polkadot account to mark as the destination for sending the DOTs in the claim.
```

> Please follow the instructions on the [account generation][] page for generating a new Polakdot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions on the [account generation][] page for generating a new Polkadot
```

> Please follow the instructions on the [account generation][] page for generating a new Polkadot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions on the [account generation][learn-account-generation] page for generating a new Polkadot
```

account.

#### Claiming your DOT with MyCrypto

The Polkadot JS [Claims app][] helps you sign a message from MyCrypto. MyCrypto is a good choice in
case you have stored the key to the Ethereum account holding your DOT indicator tokens on a hardware

> device like a Ledger Nano S or a Trezor. It also supports raw private keys, mnemonics and the Parity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
device like a Ledger Nano S or a Trezor. It also supports raw private keys, mnemonics and Parity
```

signer.

> **NOTICE**: It is much more secure to download and use the MyCrypto app locally. Please make sure to

Reviewer: you just said this a few paragraphs ago

Reviewer 3: We really want to get the point across :) 

.. but point taken, will remove one of them.

download the latest version for your operating system. You can always find the most up-to-date

> releases of the desktop app on their [releases page][mycrypto].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
releases of the desktop app on their [releases page][https://github.com/MyCryptoHQ/MyCrypto/releases].
```

Once you've downloaded MyCrypto and have it running locally (we recommend an air-gapped computer for
maximum security), you can start by navigating to the Claims app on Polkadot-JS Apps. Select the
account you would like to claim the DOTs into and click the blue "Continue" button to proceed. Your
screen should look something like this:

![claim-1](assets/new-claims/claim-1.png)

Now you will need to provide the Ethereum address that is associated with the DOT indicator tokens
that you will claim. Enter the Ethereum address into the box and click "Continue". Next your screen
should look the image below.

> ![claim-2](assets/new-claims/claim-2.png)

Reviewer 4: Just a heads-up that the latest version includes the correct payload to sign and the full statement:

<img width="641" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-25 at 11 24 45" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1293565/82799497-6e2f1700-9e7a-11ea-8ea4-434b22150dd3.png">

Reviewer 5: Lots of typos in the above screenshot. Where can one fix this?

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps/pull/2734

But the screenshot is already outdated, so I think the typos may have been fixed.

The hex encoded string that follows the sentence: "Pay DOTs to the Polkadot account:" is the

> hex-encoded public key of your Polkadot account, minus the `0x` prefix. To verify that the public
> key is correct you can use the `subkey` tool to inspect your address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hex-encoded public key of your Polkadot account, minus the `0x` prefix.
```

> key is correct you can use the `subkey` tool to inspect your address.

Reviewer 2: Should we include instructions for using `subkey` here?

Reviewer: Nope, would even remove this - it's not clear at all and leaves people wondering if there's an extra step that they should do.

The next step is to go to the MyCrypto application and click on "Sign & Verify Message" tab.

![claim-3](assets/new-claims/claim-3.png)

This will prompt you to select a method for unlocking your wallet.

![claim-3](assets/new-claims/claim-4.png)

> After unlocking your wallet, you will copy and paste the outputted sentence into the input box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After unlocking your wallet, paste the message from Polkadot JS into the "Message" box.
```

> ![claim-5](assets/new-claims/claim-5.png)

Reviewer 6: Additional to Amaury's comment, there is now an additional sentence added at the end of the phrase to copy, it should be reflected in this screenshot as well (e.g for regular account it's "I hereby agree to the terms of the statement whose SHA-256 multihash is Qmc1XYqT6S39WNp2UeiRUrZichUWUPpGEThDE6dAb3f6Ny. (This may be found at the URL:  https://statement.polkadot.network/regular.html)"

Reviewer 2: Note that some changes were made to SAFT yesterday so hash will have changed

Reviewer: Indeed: https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps/pull/2734/commits/e5d7d604b53f504397e4e37532a5ba85c65cf78e

When you click "Sign Message" you will get a JSON output like the below:

![claim-6](assets/new-claims/claim-6.png)

Copy and paste the JSON output of the signed message from MyCrypto into the input box on the
Polkadot JS UI and click "Confirm Claim."

![claim-7](assets/new-claims/claim-7.png)

Now a green box will appear telling you the amount to claim with a "Claim" button to make the claim.
Click on the "Claim" button and click "Submit (no signature)" to complete the claim.

![claim-9](assets/new-claims/claim-9.png)

At this point you will see a success message if everything went right and your DOTs will now be in
the account that you claimed to.

![claim-10](assets/new-claims/claim-10.png)

Congratulations you can now participate in aspects of the Polkadot network such as

> [governance](learn-governance) and [staking](learn-staking). During the soft launch period balance

Reviewer: Well, this isn't true.

> Congratulations you can now participate in aspects of the Polkadot network such as
> [governance](learn-governance) and [staking](learn-staking). During the soft launch period balance
> transfers will not be enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations, you have now completed the process for claiming and signing for your DOTs.
```

#### Verifying your Claim

After you make an on-chain claim for DOTs, your balance should be updated on the Polkadot UI
immediately.

Having trouble? Get support in the DOT [Claims Support][] channel.

### Third Party Claims Processes

\_COINBASE_TO_DO

**We do not recommend using a third-party app or process to perform your claim or acquire DOT**

> Claiming using a third-party process can lead to the loss of your allocation, therefore we cannot

Reviewer 2: How about "Claiming using other third-party processes..." instead?  Since we are directly endorsing Coinbase, above.

recommend using any third party apps to do so. Manually specifying your transaction data, as
specified in our claims process, is the only way to be certain you will receive your allocation.

## Attesting to a statement

> If you've already made a pre-genesis claim you still have to attest to a statement using your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've already made a pre-genesis claim, you still have to attest to a statement using your
```

### What you will need

- Your Polkadot account unlocked on Polkadot-JS Apps UI.

You will be sending a free transaction from your Polkadot account on the Polkadot-JS Apps UI. Once
you make this transaction you will have the tokens available in your account to use for staking,
voting, and eventually transfers.

### Log on to Polkadot-JS Apps

Proceed to [polkadot-js Apps][claims app]. You will need to grant Apps access to your account in
some way. One way would be to go to the Accounts page and "create" a new account, replacing the
generated seed or mnemonic with the one belonging to your account. The other way is by using the
Polkadot-JS extension and entering your seed or mnemonic there, which is generally safer than
entering it directly to the Apps page.

### Make the attestation

Once you have your account entered you should see a red counter appear on the "Claim Tokens" tab on
the left navigation drawer.

![claim-attest-1](assets/new-claims/claim-attest-1.png)

Click on the "Claim Tokens" tab and you will see a large notification at the top of the page that
tells you that you need to sign an attestation.

![claim-attest-2](assets/new-claims/claim-attest-2.png)

> You will select your Polkadot account that is being notified to you needs to make an attestation in

Reviewer: ?

the selector on this page. Click "Continue" and you should see a green box appear to the right of
the selector.

![claim-attest-3](assets/new-claims/claim-attest-3.png)

> ![claim-attest-4](assets/new-claims/claim-attest-4.png)

Reviewer 4: Same here

<img width="606" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-25 at 11 27 07" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1293565/82799703-bea67480-9e7a-11ea-89bb-f3f41bdfc234.png">

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to change "Attestation for:" to "Account balance:"?  Might be confusing otherwise, people think they need to pay that amount.

Click on "Attest" and then "Sign and Submit" to make your free attest transaction. When the

> transaction is included in the block you will see a green success box appear in the upper left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction is included in the block, you will see a green success box appear in the upper left
```

> corner and not the DOTs are in your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
corner and the DOTs will be in your account.
```

[mycrypto]: https://github.com/MyCryptoHQ/MyCrypto/release
[account generation]: learn-account-generation
[claims app]: https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/claims
[claims support]:

>   https://riot.im/app/#/room/!kwIkVteRpPRjjTyvTe:web3.foundation?via=web3.foundation&via=matrix.org&via=matrix.parity.io)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  https://riot.im/app/#/room/!kwIkVteRpPRjjTyvTe:web3.foundation?via=web3.foundation&via=matrix.org&via=matrix.parity.io
```

---
id: claims
title: Polkadot Claims
sidebar_label: Claims
---

Polkadot is a sharded protocol that enables blockchain networks to operate together seamlessly.

If you hold the DOT indicator token, you are entitled to claim an equivalent amount of DOT on the Polkadot network.

You can claim DOTs by signing a message with the Ethereum account that holds your DOT indicator tokens.

> ## Step 1. Create a Polkadot account

Reviewer 3: This entire section can be replaced by the dedicated [Account Generation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-account-generation) page.

5. Click on the pink QR Code symbol and select `Copy address` to copy your address to clipboard.

_TODO_UPDATE_IMG_

6. [Get the Polkadot address from the Substrate address.](#polkadot-from-substrate-address)

### Polkadot from Substrate address

If you used one of the generation methods that gave you a generic Substrate address (begins with a `5`), then you will need to take an extra step to turn this into the properly encoded Polkadot address.

1. Copy your Substrate generic address to the clipboard.
2. Go to the [Polkadot UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps).
3. Go to the `Settings` tab and find the configuration for `address network prefix`.
4. Select `Substrate (generic)` and click `Save and reload`.
5. Go to the `Accounts` page, select the `My contracts` tab and click `Add contact`.
6. Enter your address and give it a name like "My Address".
7. Go back to the `Settings` tab and select the `Polkadot (mainnet)` option in `address network prefix` and click `Save and reload`.
8. Go back to the `My contracts` and find the account you just added (it will have the same name).
9. The address is now formatted as a Polkadot address.

> ## Step 2. Get DOT tokens

Reviewer 3: This section "Step 2" Should be the only section on this page.

---
id: claims
title: Polkadot Claims
sidebar_label: Claims
---

If you made a DOT purchase in one of the pre-launch sales, then you will need to claim your DOT
tokens. For those who made a pre-genesis claim by sending a claim transaction to the Claims Contract
on Ethereum, you will still need to send a free _attest_ transaction that will agree to the terms
and conditions of your allocation. If you did not make a pre-genesis claim, then you will claim and
attest in a single transaction.

This guide will walk you through the steps for either making a claim or attesting to the statement.

> If you are making a claim on Polkadot for the first time please read on below in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are making a claim on Polkadot for the first time, please read on below in the
```

> [making a claim](#making-a-claim) section. If you've already claimed during the pre-genesis claims
> please proceed to [attesting to a statement](#attesting-to-a-statement) section instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[making a claim](#making-a-claim) section. If you've already claimed during the pre-genesis claims
period, please proceed to the [attesting to a statement](#attesting-to-a-statement) section instead.
```

## Making a Claim

If you did not make a claim in the pre-genesis claims period, then you are able to claim your DOT
tokens after genesis. There is no time limit for making your claim so feel free to do this whenever
you are most comfortable.

> Note: When you make a claim, you will also attest to the agreement that corresponds to your DOT
> allocation. The two actions "claim" and "attest" are done in a single transaction, but for the

> > most part this is simplified from the perspective of the UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> most part this is simplified from the perspective of the user.
```

### What You Will Need

- The Ethereum account that holds the DOT indicator tokens
- The MyCrypto wallet
- A Polkadot account

You should already have your Ethereum account that holds the DOT indicator tokens from Polkadot's
prior sales. You will need to have access to this account in order to make a signature.

[MyCrypto][] is a versatile wallet that supports a variety of storage methods for your Ethereum

> account. Go to their downloads page and ensure that you download the latest version for your

Reviewer 2: Should we include a link to their downloads page here?  Or say that it was linked previously?

Reviewer: It is linked in the MyCrypto right there. But could just move that to "downloads page" in the text.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it was linked in the previous sentence, but to me this just looks awkward saying "go to their downloads page" without a link or reference.  

My preference would be to move the link to here.

operating system. This is important because the latest version will always have the latest security
patches.

> **NOTICE**: It is much more secure to download and use the MyCrypto app locally. You can always
> find the most up-to-date releases of the desktop app on their [releases page][mycrypto].

> You will need a Polkadot account to which to fulfill your DOTs claim. Please follow the instructions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need a Polkadot account to claim your DOTs. Please follow the instructions
```

on the [account generation][] page for generating a new Polkadot account.

#### Claiming your DOT with MyCrypto

The Polkadot JS [Claims app][] helps you sign a message from MyCrypto. MyCrypto is a good choice in
case you have stored the key to the Ethereum account holding your DOT indicator tokens on a hardware

> device like a Ledger Nano S or a Trezor. It also supports raw private keys, mnemonics, and Parity

Reviewer 2: MyCrypto with Trezor can't sign, apparently.  Not sure why.
<img width="248" alt="Screen Shot 2020-05-26 at 4 38 57 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1417717/82914182-7917a380-9f6f-11ea-977b-0ed1ce4d2663.png">

Reviewer 3: I wonder if this is a new change?

maximum security), you can start by navigating to the Claims app on Polkadot-JS Apps. Select the
account you would like to claim the DOTs into and click the blue "Continue" button to proceed. Your
screen should look something like this:

![claim-1](assets/new-claims/claim-1.png)

Now you will need to provide the Ethereum address that is associated with the DOT indicator tokens
that you will claim. Enter the Ethereum address into the box and click "Continue".

![claim-2](assets/new-claims/claim-2.png)

Next your screen should look the image below.

![claim-2-1](assets/new-claims/claim-2-1.png)

The hex-encoded string that follows the sentence: "Pay DOTs to the Polkadot account:" is the
hex-encoded public key of your Polkadot account, minus the `0x` prefix.

The next step is to go to the MyCrypto application and click on "Sign & Verify Message" tab.

![claim-3](assets/new-claims/claim-3.png)

This will prompt you to select a method for unlocking your wallet.

![claim-4](assets/new-claims/claim-4.png)

After unlocking your wallet, paste the message from Polkadot JS into the "Message" box.

![claim-5](assets/new-claims/claim-5.png)

> When you click "Sign Message" you will get a JSON output like the below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you click "Sign Message" you will get a JSON output like the one below:
```

![claim-6](assets/new-claims/claim-6.png)

Copy and paste the JSON output of the signed message from MyCrypto into the input box on the
Polkadot JS UI and click "Confirm Claim."

![claim-7](assets/new-claims/claim-7.png) ![claim-8](assets/new-claims/claim-8.png)

> Now a green box will appear telling you the amount to claim with a "Claim" button to make the claim.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A green box will appear telling you the amount to claim with a "Claim" button to make the claim.
```
